

**Thm**
Consider an $m×n$ matrix $A_{mn}$
If $m<n,$ then the system $AX=0$ always has a non-trivial solution.
(a homogenous system always has at least one trivial solution)

**Proof**
from $AX=0,$ we derive a row reduced echelon matrix $R$ such that $RX=0$
let $r$ be the number of non zero rows such that
$r\leq m < n$

$n-r\geq1$ 

Consider $RX=0,$ where $R_{mn}$ is the row reduced echelon matrix form of $A_{mn}$.

$1, \cdots, r$ is the number of non-zero rows.
$k_1, \cdots, k_r$ are the $r$ non-zero rows
$k_i\rightarrow$ every $i^{th}$ row which has at least one non zero element.


$r$ non trivial linear equations

$x_1, \cdots, x_n\rightarrow$ these are the $n$ variables which all the linear equations are comprised
now let us divide these variables (scalars) into two sets of scalars.
Let $x_{k_i}$ be the corresponding scalar for the leading $1$ of $i^{th}$ non-zero row.
and let the scalars for the remaining non-zero columns be $u_1, u_2,\cdots, u_{n-r}$
$x_{k_1} +\sum_{j=1}^{n-r}{c_{1j}u_j}=0$  
$.$
$.$
$x_{k_r} +\sum_{j=1}^{n-r}{c_{rj}u_j}=0$  


Total $n$  scalars

$(x_{k_1},x_{k_2}, \cdots x_{k_r}),$ 
$(u_1, u_2,\cdots, u_{n-r})$ remaining $n-r$ scalars


a homogenous system will always have the trivial solution of all $x_i=0$ 


**Thm**
Consider an $m×n$ matrix $A_{mn}$
A system $AX=0$ has only a trivial solution if and only if $A$ is row equivalent to the Identity matrix $\mathbb{1}_{mn}$ .

1. $AX=0$ has only a trivial solution.
$\implies$ 
$x_1=0$
$x_2=0$
.
.
.
$x_n=0$

and we have 
 
2. $A$ is row equivalent to $\mathbb{1}_{mn}$.
Since the Identity matrix is not equal to $0,$



**Non-Homogeneous Systems**
$AX=Y,$   $Y\neq0_{m×1}$

For homogeneous systems, $\exists$ always at least a trivial solution. This is not true for a non-homogeneous system.


$A_{m×n}X_{n×1}=Y_{m×1},$   $Y\neq0_{m×1}$
$AX=Y$
we can create an augmented matrix by 'stacking' $Y$ to the right of $A$.

$A'=[A|Y]$

Now, we perform some $k$ elementary row operations simultaneously on $A$ and $Y$.
An equivalent process to this would be to perform these operations on the augmented matrix $A'$.
$\therefore$
$A$     $Y$
 $\downarrow$     $\downarrow$ 
$A_k$   $Y_k$
where $A_k=R$ is a row reduced echelon matrix and $Y_k=Z$ is another matrix.
is equivalent to 
$A'$
 $\downarrow$
 $A'_k$ 
 where $A'_k=R'=[R|Z]$
 
 and $RX=Z$ and $AX=Y$ are equivalent and have the same solution.


$x_{k_1} + ... =$
$x_{k_2} + ... =$



$x_{k_r} + ... =$


if
$0=z_{r+1}$
.
.
.
$0=z_{m}$

then $\exists$ a solution. 
(if even one of these $z\neq 0$ then $\nexists$ a solution)


**Matrix Multiplication**

Suppose you have an $m×p$ matrix $A$ and another $p×n$ matrix $B,$ whose rows are given by $\beta_1,\beta_2, \cdots\cdots \beta_n$

and another matrix $C$, whose rows $\gamma_1,\gamma_2,......\gamma_m$ are given by
$\gamma_i=a_{i1}\beta_1 + a_{i2}\beta_2 + \cdots \cdots + a_{in}\beta_n$


$c_{ij}=\sum^{p}_{r=1}a_{ir}b_{rj}$
$\gamma_i = [c_{i1}$  $c_{i2} \cdots \cdots c_{in}]$ 
$=[\sum^p_{r=1}a_{ir}b_{r1}$  $\sum^p_{r=1}a_{ir}b_{r2} \cdots \cdots \sum^p_{r=1}a_{ir}b_{rn}]$


**Assignment**
Thm
If $A,B$ and $C$ are matrices over the field $F,$ such that the products $BC$ and $A(BC)$ are defined, then so are the products $AB,$   $(AB)C,$ and furthermore $A(BC)=(AB)C$.

prove $[(AB)C]_{ij}=\sum_r (AB)_{ir}C_{rj}$
and that
$[A(BC)]_{ij}=\sum_r A_{ir}(BC)_{rj}$


**Exercise**
Consider a matrix $B_{mxn}$ where $B$ can be expressed as a stack of columns $B_i$. i.e. $B=\begin{bmatrix} B_1 & B_2 &\cdots &B_n\end{bmatrix}$
