(extra monday on saturday)

**Matrix Multiplication**

Consider two matrices $A_{m×p}$ and $B_{p×n}$
on the field $F$.
The matrix multiplication $AB=C_{m×n}$ such that 
$$c_{ij} = \sum^n_{r=1} a_{ir}b_{rj}$$

It is well defined if and only if the number of rows of the first matrix is equal to the number of columns of the second.

**Properties**
1. It is associative. $(AB)C=A(BC)=$ (a linear combination of a linear combination of the rows of $C$.)
2. It is not necessarily commutative.

**Matrix Exponentiation**
It is only well defined for square matrices. It is both associative and commutative.
$$A^n = A\cdot A\cdot A \cdots A$$ (n times)

**Thm**
Let $A$ and $B$ be two row equivalent matrices. $\exists$ two matrices $P$ and $Q$ such that 
$PA=B$ and
$QB=A$
$\implies PQ=\mathbb{1}$
**Definition**
An $m×m$ matrix is an elementary matrix, if it can be obtained by a single elementary row operation from $\mathbb1_{m×m}:$ the Identity matrix of the same dimensions.
I.e., if $e$ is a single elementary row operation, then
$$E_{m×m}=e(\mathbb1_{m×m})$$ 
Consider $\mathbb1_{2×2} = \begin{bmatrix} 1&0\\0&1\end{bmatrix}$
the possible $E_{2×2}$ are 
$$\begin{bmatrix} 0&1\\1&0\end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix} c&0\\0&1\end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix} 1&0\\0&c\end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix} 1&0\\ c&1\end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix} 1&c\\0&1\end{bmatrix}
$$
where $c\neq0$


**Assignment**
Let $e$ be an elementary row operation and $E_{m×m}=e(\mathbb1_{m×m})$. Then, for every $A_{m×n}$
$$e(A)=EA$$


**Corollary** 
Let $A_{m×n}$ and $B_{m×n}$ be two matrices.
$A$ and $B$ are row-equivalent to each other, if and only if $\exists P = E_1 E_2 E_3 \cdots E_k$ such that $B = PA$ and each $E_i$ is an elementary matrix.

Proof.
$E_1A=e_1(A)$
let $e_1(A)=A'$ and $E_1E_2 = E''$

$E_2E_1A=e_2(A')$

let $E_1E_2 = E''$
$E_3E''A=e_3(A'')$
.
.
.

and hence $B = e_k(\cdots e_2(e_1(A))) = PA = E_1 E_2 E_3 \cdots E_k A$


Definition
**Invertible Matrices**
Let $A_{m×n}$ be a matrix. $B_{n×m}$ is the left-inverse of $A$ if $BA=\mathbb1$ and the right inverse of $A$ if $AB=\mathbb1$. 
If $AB=BA=\mathbb1,$ then $B$ is the two sided inverse of $A$, and $A$ is invertible.

(If $A$ is a square matrix, and it has a left or right inverse $B,$ then it is necessarily invertible and $B$ is the two sided inverse of $A$.)

**Lemma**
If $A_{n×n}$ has a left-inverse $B_{n×n}$ and a right-inverse $C_{n×n},$
then, $$B=C
 $$
 because
 $BA=\mathbb1=AC$
 $\implies B=B\mathbb1=BAC=\mathbb1C=C$
 $\implies B=C$
 
**Thm**
Let $A_{n×n}$ and $B_{n×n}$ be two matrices.
1. If $A$ is invertible, then $A^{-1}$ is also invertible, and $${(A^{-1})}^{-1}=A$$
	**Proof**
	$AA^{-1}=A^{-1}A=\mathbb1$
	$\implies  A = (A^{-1})^{-1}$
	
	
2. If both $A$ and $B$ are invertible, then so is their product, and $${(AB)}^{-1} = B^{-1}A^{-1}$$
	**Proof**
	$ABB^{-1}A^{-1}=A\mathbb1A^{-1}=AA^{-1}=\mathbb1=B^{-1}A^{-1}AB$


**Corollary**
A product of invertible matrices is also invertible.
$${(A_1A_2A_3\cdots\cdots A_n)}^{-1} = A_n^{-1}\cdots\cdots A_3^{-1}A_2^{-1}A_1^{-1}$$



**Thm**
Every elementary matrix is invertible. (because there exists an inverse for every elementary row operation)
$\mathbb1 = e^{-1}(e(\mathbb1))$
$\implies E^{-1}EX = X$
$e(\mathbb1)=E$
$e^{-1}(\mathbb1)=E^{-1}$


**Thm**
Let $A_{n×n}$. The following statements are equivalent:
1. $A$ is invertible.
2. $A$ is row equivalent to $\mathbb1_{n×n}$.
3. $A$ is a product of elementary matrices.
$R\leftarrow A$ ($R$ is a row reduced echelon matrix)

$\implies \exists Q,$ such that $QR=\mathbb1$ 

$\implies \mathbb1_{nn} = 1 = \sum^n_{r=1}Q_{nr}R_{rn}$ 