Consider the following system of linear equations.
It is a linear combination of linear equations.

**General System of Linear Equations** ($1.1$)
$A_{11} x_1 + A_{12} x_2 + ........ A_{1n}x_n = y_1$
$A_{21} x_1 + A_{22} x_2 + ........ A_{2n}x_n = y_2$
.
.
.
.
$A_{m1} x_1 + A_{m2} x_2 + ........ A_{mn}x_n = y_m$

Now, let us select $m$ scalars:
{$c_1, c_2, c_3 \cdots\cdots c_m$}

multiply every $j^{th}$ equation by $c_j$ and add the equations.
$(c_1A_{11} + \cdots\cdots+ c_n A_{1n})x_1$ 
$+(c_1A_{12} + \cdots\cdots+ c_n A_{1n})x_2$ $+ \cdots (c_1A_{1n} + \cdots\cdots+ c_n A_{mn})x_n =$  $c_1y_1 + c_2y_2+ c_3y_3 \cdots\cdots c_my_m$


The solution to this system is also the solution to each individual linear equation.


Now consider this system $1.2$

$B_{11} x_1 + B_{12} x_2 + ........ B_{1n}x_n = y_1$
$B_{21} x_1 + B_{22} x_2 + ........ B_{2n}x_n = y_2$
.
.
.
.
$B_{k1} x_1 + B_{m2} x_2 + ........ B_{kn}x_n = y_k$

where each of the $k$ equations is a linear combination of the equations in $1.1$ 

Each solution of $1.1$ is also valid solution for $1.2,$ but the converse is not necessarily true.


Two systems of linear equations are called equivalent, if and only if each equation in its system can be written or expressed as a linear combination of the linear equations in the other system, and vice versa.

**Theorem**
Equivalent systems of linear equations have the exact same solutions.

**Matrices and Elementary Row Operations** 
$\begin{bmatrix} a &b \\ c &d \end{bmatrix}$

Let us abrieviate the system $1.1$ as a matrix of $m$ rows and $n$ columns.

$Y=AX$

$A=\begin{bmatrix} A_{11} &A_{12} &\cdots &A_{1n} \\ A_{21} & A_{22} &\cdots &A_{2n} \\ \cdots &\cdots&\cdots&\cdots \\ A_{m1} &\cdots &\cdots &A_{mn} \end{bmatrix}$ 
this is known as the matrix of coefficients

$X = \begin{bmatrix} x_1 \\ . \\ . \\ . \\ x_n \end{bmatrix}$


$Y = \begin{bmatrix}y_1 \\ . \\ . \\ . \\ y_m \end{bmatrix}$


A $m\times n$ matrix over the field $F$ is a function that maps pairs ($i,j$) of integers $1\leq i \leq m, 1 \leq j \leq n$ to an element in $F$

Consider operations on the rows of the matrix $A$ which correspond to forming linear combinations of the equations in the system of $AX=Y$ 

**Three Elementary Row Operations on a $m$x$n$ Matrix $A$ over $F$**
1. Multiplying a row of $A$ by a non zero scalar $C$
2. Replacing the $r^{th}$ row with the row formed by adding the $s^{th}$ row to it $c$ times, such that $c\in F, c\neq 0, r\neq s$
3. Interchanging any two rows

Any elementary row operation is a special function  (rule) $e$ which associates with each $m\times n$ matrix A another $m\times n$ matrix $e(A)$.
1. $e(A)_{ij} = A_{ij}$ if $i\neq r$
   $e(A)_{rj} = cA_{rj},$   $c\neq0$
2. $e(A)_{ij} = A_{ij}$ if $i\neq r$
   $e(A)_{rj} = A_{rj}+cA_{sj},$   $c\neq0, r\neq s$
3. $e(A)_{ij} = A_{ij}$ if $i\neq r, i\neq s, r\neq s$
   $e(A)_{rj} = A_{sj},$   $i=r$ 
   $e(A)_{sj}=A_{rj},$   $i=s$


**Definition**
If $A$ and $B$ are two matrices over $F,$ we say that $B$ is *row equivalent* to $A$ if $B$ can be obtained from $A$ by a finite sequence of elementary operations on $A$. 

i.e.$, \exists k\in\mathbb{N},$ such that $e_k(... e_2(e_1(A))) = B$

i.e.
$A\rightarrow A_1\rightarrow A_2\rightarrow A_3\rightarrow A_4\cdots\cdots\rightarrow B$  
where each $A_i= e(A_{i-1})$ where $e$ is an elementary row transformation.

**Remark**
Row equivalence ($R$) is an equivalence relation.

**Proof**
Let $M$ be the set of all matrices
1. Symmetric
   $\forall$ $A\in M,$  $A = A$
   $\implies$ Row equivalence is symmetric
2. Reflexive
   Let $A,B\in M, ARB \implies\exists k\in\mathbb{N}$ such that
   $e_k(... e_2(e_1(A))) = B$
   We also have that every elementary row operation has an invers which is also an elementary row operation of the same type.
   $\implies e_1^{-1}(e_2^{-1}(... e_k^{-1}(B))) = A$
   $\therefore BRA$
   $\implies$ Row equivalence is reflexive
3. Let $A,B,C\in M, ARB$ and $BRC$
	$e_k(... e_2(e_1(A))) = B$
	and 
	$e_l(... e_{k+2}(e_{k+1}(B))) = C$
	$\implies e_l(... e_{k+2}(e_{k+1}(e_k(... e_2(e_1(A)))))) = C$
	Thus $C$ and $A$ are also row equivalent
	$\implies$ $ARC$  
	Row equivalence is also a transitive relation.
Thus it is an equivalence relation.

