We have two vectors spaces $V$ and $W$. 
The Linear Transformation $T$ maps each element $\vec v \in V$ to some $\vec w \in W$.

**Image : Rank**
The image of $T$ is the range of this function given  by $T(V)\subseteq W$.
The image of $T$ is a subspace in itself.
For every finite dimensional $V,$ $im(T)$ is also finite dimensional.
The dimension of $im(T)$ is called *rank*

**Null Space : Nullity**
The null space of $T$ is given by $$ker(T) = \{\vec v \in V : T(\vec v) = \vec0_w\}$$The Null Space of $T$ is a subspace in itself.
For every finite dimensional $V,$ $ker(T)$ is also finite dimensional.
The dimension of $ker(T)$ is called *nullity*.
Null space is also known as the *kernel* of $T$.


in conclusion:

$im(T) = \{\vec  w \in W : \exists \vec v \in V , T(\vec v) = \vec w\}$
$ker(T) = \{\vec  v \in V : T(\vec v) = \vec 0_w\}$
$rank = dim(im(T))$
$nullity = dim(ker(T))$

We also have that if the basis of $V$ is some $\{\vec\alpha_i\}^n_{i=1}\subset V$ and $dim(V) = n$
$T(\vec \alpha_i) = \vec \beta_i \in W$ 
and each $\vec \alpha = \sum_i c_i\vec\alpha_i$ 
$\vec\beta = T(\vec \alpha) = \sum_i c_i T(\vec\alpha_i) = \sum_i c_i\vec\beta_i$ 

As in, the rank will always be less than or equal to the dimension of $V$ because the dimension of $V$ is the number of vectors in the basis $B_v$ of $V$ which has some $n$ $\vec\beta_i$ vectors mapped in the image. Thus, each vector in the image can be represented by some linear combin
ation of the vectors $\{\vec\beta_i\}^n_{i=1}.$ So, the basis of the image of $V$ will be at most of dimension $n$ because there exists a set of $n$ linearly independent vectors  $,\{\vec\beta_i\}^n_{i=1},$ which span $im(T).$  

Consider some $F^n, F^m.$ Let us represent each vector (each n-tuple) in these spaces as a column matrix  and .
Thus, there exists some $A_{m\times n}$ matrix such that $$A_{m\times n} X_{n\times 1} = Y_{m\times 1}$$Thus, for every linear transformation, there exists a matrix representation, the rank of which is given by the number of linearly independent rows (or columns).


**Thm**
$V$ and $W$ are vector spaces over $F$. Let $F'$ be the set of all linear transformations from $V$ to $W$.

*Vector Addition*
$T:V\rightarrow W$ and $U:V\rightarrow W$ are some linear transformations. $i.e.(T,U\in F')$ 
$(T+U)$ defined as $$(T+U)(\vec\alpha) = T(\vec\alpha) + U(\vec\alpha)$$
is also a linear transformation: $(T+U):V\rightarrow W$

*Scalar Multiplication*

If $c\in F, T\in F'$
$(cT)(\vec\alpha) =  c (T(\vec\alpha))$ is also a linear transformation. $(cT): V\rightarrow W$


The set of all linear transformations $F'$ from $V\rightarrow W$ with vector addition and scalar multiplication is also a vector space over $F$ (over the same field).
This vector space is represented as $L(V,W)$ or $\mathcal L(V,W)$.

**Proof**
$(cT + U)(\vec\alpha) =  (cT)(\vec\alpha) + U(\vec \alpha) =   c(T(\vec\alpha)) + U(\vec \alpha)$
which is also a  linear transformation from $V$ to $W$.



**Thm**
Let $V,W,$ and $Z$ be vector spaces over $F$.
$T:V\rightarrow W$ and $U:W\rightarrow Z$ are two linear transformations.  (it is not necessary that the range of $T$ is $W$)
Then the composition of $U$ and $T,$  $U\circ T$ or $UT,$ is also a linear transformation: $U\circ T : V \rightarrow Z$ defined as 

$$(U\circ T)(\vec v) = (UT)(\vec v) = U(T(\vec v))$$


**Definition**
**Linear Operator**
A linear transformation from a vector space to itself is known as a linear operator. 
$T:V\rightarrow V$ (it is not necessary that the range$(T)=V$)
Linear operators belong to the set $L(V,V)$ or $\mathcal L(V,V).$

If $T$ and $U$ are linear operators of this form, then $UT$ and $TU$ are both well defined and they are also themselves linear operators.

We can also define exponentiation of linear operators as 
$T^n = T\circ T \circ T \ldots T$ ($n$ times)   $\forall n\in \mathbb N$
and 
$T^0 = \mathbb 1 : V \rightarrow V$    
i.e. $T^0(\vec\alpha) = \mathbb1(\vec\alpha) =\vec\alpha$        $\forall \vec \alpha \in V$

























**Thm**  Assignment
Let $V$ and $W$ be two vector spaces over $F$.
$dim(V) = n$
$dim(W) = m$

Prove without using matrix notation that $$dim(L(V,W)) = mn$$


**Rank Nullity Theorem**  Assignment
If $V$ is a finite dimensional vector space over $F$,$$dim (V) = rank(T) + nullity(T) = dim(im(T)) + dim (ker(T))$$





